adwizchar drizzti as testchar for drizzt
adwizchar cyrici as testchar for cyric
adwizchar mars as player for cyric
adwizchar zapp as player for duridian
adwizchar duridiani as testchar for duridian
adwizchar thor as player for duridian
adwizchar nevini as testchar for nevin
adwizchar pirotessa as player for nevin
adwizchar maxwelli as testchar for maxwell
adwizchar drakon as player fo maxwell
adwizchar dreadi as testchar for dread
adwizchar varyon as player for dread
adwizchar bucko as testchar for khojem
adwizchar helspont as player for blial
adwizchar neptune as player for blial
adwizchar elessar as player for mythril
adwizchar mythrili as testchar for mythril
adwizchar kalos as player for bleys
adwizchar pencili as testchar for pencil
adwizchar yodai as testchar for yoda
adwizchar slovotsky as player for moradon
adwizchar lestat as player for malkavian
adwizchar atheus as player for stig
adwizchar stigi as testchar for stig
adwizchar jetlag as player for kil
adwizchar lorthag as player for valnor
adwizchar malachi as player for avatar
adwizchar darkmir as player for rylo
adwizchar clavemani as testchar for claveman
adwizchar bloodfeast as player for vorphalack
adwizchar khelli as testchar for khellendros
adwizchar babi as testchar for cab
adwizchar kilal as player for cab

